Hello again to the channel, if this is your first time here, what we do is Spanish divulgation of the latest
that is coming out in Machine Learning. Today what we are going to be talking about is the new release that
Microsoft did, which is 365 Copilot, which is basically introducing GPT-4, which came out yesterday,
within the Office suite. So in this video we are going to do an analysis of everything that is
happening this week in AI and also how this new tool can change the way
in which you work.
So, as always, we are going to divide the video into parts, first we are going to see what is happening this week in AI,
I mean, put it in context, right?
I mean, this release, in the middle of what things are coming out.
Then we will see in detail what is this Microsoft 365 Copilot,
and then we will see basically a conclusion,
and we will see my ideas, my opinion, for example, in what is the future of work.
and
So, first of all, let's see what's happening this week, which was crazy, really.
On Monday, Stanford released a paper called ALPACA.
ALPACA is this paper, basically what they did is,
they took a release that Meta had released last week, called LAMA,
and what they did was use the API of OpenAI, DaVinci 3,
Create. Share. Learn.
based on that output, they generated a dataset that would be a supervised training of what they are doing,
it is called self-instruction, the method they used, and using this dataset they trained a smaller version of Lama,
that is, they did a fine-tuning, and then they generated a model called Alpaca, which is trained to do this task,
which is good to do a little brainstorming of creative ideas to design blah blah blah
and the good thing is that this file, with this amount of parameters, can run on a GPU with 7 or 10 GB of memory
so it is something that you can use for games, let's say you can use it to run this type of models
It has also been seen running on a MacBook, for example the latest M1 and M2.
It also works. So, the first thing they did was that.
Google announces Medpalm, which is a language model trained in medicine,
in biomedical data. On Tuesday, this was actually the last thing that happened in the day.
The first thing that happened in the day was that Google took out...
a API for its generative models and released something called Maker Suite,
which would be like a UI on top of that.
Adept raised 350 million dollars,
Anthropic, which is another company that makes LLMs,
finally released Cloud, which was in preview,
Create. Share. Learn.
And then we also had Google add to their workspaces this from Generative AI.
Now, all these things, these four things,
didn't matter to almost anyone
because at night OpenAI took out GPT-4
and directly absorbed all the oxygen that was in the room.
To give you an idea, this is what Google took out here, which is pretty good.
Let's see how it connects to Microsoft 365.
ok
So, let's go back a bit. What's going on here?
It's reading the text from our emails,
it's creating a summary of what we were having,
are incorporating
what the email is, that is, the conversations that we are having.
Then it is generating new text, that is, a template of an email
when we want to answer these people.
Then here you can see that it is generating, we can
make it shorter, elaborate, expand it, rephrase it
or add some kind of feature to the text that we have.
For example, in this case, let's make it a little bit funnier.
and it changes the way it's written, right?
Now it tells us to build a presentation
based on this text you just read.
You can see how it starts to generate slides
and generate images.
In this case, we're deciding that what we want is to create images.
So it's combining a lot of APIs at the same time.
and it is also a collaborative environment.
We're having a conversation,
and it tells us what it's talking about, transcribe it, and take notes.
Next steps, what are the points of what was said, etc.
Then it's taking a spreadsheet, an Excel sheet,
and it's telling us to generate things based on the information in the Excel sheet.
Help me write a thank-you note to the team, right?
etc. Well, this is what Google Workspace came up with.
Well, this didn't come out anywhere.
I mean, we're not talking about this because directly
GPT-4 absorbed absolutely all the oxygen from that.
On Wednesday we already had Pytorch releasing version 2.0,
mid-journey, Stripes, which has an integration with GPT,
But today, today, what happened?
Microsoft released a copilot for the 365 suite, which is the Office suite, so let's see a little bit what other things are happening, one thing that does not come out here is that at the same time that this happens, there was also another release within all this, which is the release of the Chinese version of ChatGPT, that is, China has a model called Ernie
which was made by Baidu, which is the Google of China
and it was released a short time ago
and we can see here that it didn't go so well
so the actions, I mean, they had to make a live presentation
and in the end it was pre-recorded
to save time, they pre-recorded it
just in case, so it doesn't say anything bad
So once this was seen, the shares fell 10%.
now there was one thing that I asked myself and this is a bit of geopolitics in how China did to be able to
train this model because there is one thing that is not commented so much is that within this
war of the United States China envies that it is the company that makes the video cards or the
chips that are used to train these models in general so that you have an idea the last
NVIDIA card, which is the RTX 4090
This video card, which costs about $ 1,500
It has the same amount of computers, the same processing capacity
that the most powerful supercomputer of 2007
That's just to give you an idea of how much these video cards have evolved over time
With this $1500 board we have the fastest supercomputer of 2007.
Going back, in this trade war between the US and China, the US said that it forbids all US companies, like NVIDIA, to sell chips that are very advanced to China.
so the idea is that this divergence is generated, that is, that China cannot reach the United States and that there is a divergence.
Not only that, not only do I forbid you to sell, but to the people, that is, to the people who have double nationality,
let's say American China, and who are working in China in something related to semiconductors,
I'm going to remove the American citizenship, which is something strange, because you can't remove citizenship, it's something eternal,
citizenship lasts forever, but they do it in this particular case because it is something of national security.
So...
This limitation means that China does not have access to the same capacities that all the other countries of the world have.
let's say Europe and, for example, the United States.
the A100, and they made a copy called A800
which basically has a little difference in the speed at which it works
there is no speed at which they connect inside a box, let's say there are several of these
of these plates, they speak to each other at this speed.
and what they did was, well, they lowered that speed to match the standard that the U.S. government had issued
but in itself the board is exactly the same, it has the same computing capacity, that is, it is something sharp
and seeing this, it is obvious that these companies, companies like Baidu, for example, are buying absolutely all these boards to train their models
Surely, although this may have failed, we will see many more models coming from China.
So, one thing that I thought was interesting, before getting directly into Copilot,
is that, until now, and in this I work for the direct competition of Microsoft, which is not Google,
and I have to say, I really respect how they did this launch.
and this post by Vivek seemed very good to me as a summary of how the launch was.
It's the right way to do it, it was several months of making noise before they came out,
they took it out a little bit in Bing, they gave it to partners too,
but those partners didn't tell him, you can talk about this if you don't do it quietly
They said that GPT-4 will only be available for people who have a GPT-chat subscription
So what they are doing, I know two people who have already done it, and I pay for it
I pay the $20 I get just to try it, right?
They went from doing research papers in Archive to doing marketing whitepapers
because if you see the last technical report and the rate card that came out of GPT-4
it doesn't say anything technical about how this system was made
in these models, in all the benchmarks, but also GPT-4 can be put in Stanford.
So it's very, very interesting how they did it.
Why am I talking about this? Because this is how OpenAI launched,
But if we go back to the week...
Here there were several releases that happened at the same time, right?
Anthropic released Cloud and Google released this as well.
But how is it that nobody is talking about these things?
I mean, they are terrible releases from a marketing point of view.
So much was the repercussion of this OpenAI that even the CEO of Stability.AI
and what it's saying here is, look, if you're working in OpenAI...
I'm going to give you the same fee, the benefits, everything exactly the same that OpenAI is giving you,
but so that you have to work with me and so that you can really do open artificial intelligence,
because OpenAI is now making products, so it is closed.
So what Matt says is, I'll pay you the same, get out of there, come with me, and let it be open.
This was something that came out in the middle, I'm going to put a little bit of noise.
In addition to this launch that some people may say is very fast,
it is not very accelerated, they are not taking into account all the repercussions it may have.
Well, at the same time, yesterday, they kicked out their team from Ethica, from AI.
So this makes noise, at least, what they did here.
But hey, we put all this aside and we are going to see directly
what is this ad that Microsoft made.
Thanks for watching!
and
I'm not so excited because I already saw this, so I don't change my mind, but I thought this was amazing.
Now we are going to see each of these things in detail, but what I am going to say is that several of the things they showed here are the same as we saw in Google.
So we can see how these two companies are competing directly in the same functionalities, they are very similar.
so here we can see that eventually they will be fighting until one of the two
is going to go up, but the same, make presentations, analyze
excel spreadsheets, generate for example a meeting that we have, a zoom,
make a transcript and after that transcription make the notes,
the next points, etc.
So one thing I wanted to show here is the blog post where they are announcing everything and here they explain a little more how they did all this
But I wanted to go to this presentation that they did, all the links of this I also have in the description of the videos
so now we are going to see a shorter version that is 8 minutes but I recommend you if you want to start watching it
The longest version is about 30 to 40 minutes
where they tell you in detail how these things work
This is basically a message to Google
Google is going to show that you can dance
but I want you to know that we made them dance
Awesome
Well, this, let's see it
comment
So here it tells us a bit, let's see, I'm going to leave it with the subtitle so it's easier to comment on it.
Let's put this a little faster, too.
Well, what is it doing?
It's a combination, here we can see that it's not just copying and pasting something to chat.gpt,
but here what it's doing is connecting these three things.
It's connecting large language models,
Notice that it says models in plural, that is, it means that it is not only a large
chatgpt model that is working, but there are several models that can be
smaller and more optimized, surely, for some type of action that you want to
do. Then they are combining it with a graph network, that is, what this is
doing is connecting a lot of files, for example, data, events, etc.,
of our team, of our culture.
local accounts and then finally it is integrating them within the
Microsoft 365 application.
We can see that we are going to have it integrated in Word, Excel, PowerPoint,
Outlook and also in Teams.
and finally they also add a new option called business chat which is something that would come to be like a personal assistant in reality because now you are going to see it from several different interfaces in different applications you can talk to this chat and what it has is that this chat has memory of everything we talk about so if one logs in for example to chat gpt or what is the business chat
for a special page, or for Bing, or for Teams, or for etc., you can have the same conversation
and you can, for example, ask things like, what happened today?
You can read my emails and tell me what happened
So, effectively, this is a virtual assistant
completely automatic.
You can see the calendar, emails, meetings, contacts, all of this is what it is doing.
Here what they also say is that, what is the end user that Microsoft wants?
They are not normal users, those are the ones from Google.
Google also has its part, which is companies, but generally it is end users, that is, normal users.
What Microsoft wants is, Microsoft is involved in all the corporations on the planet, or in almost all of them, right?
then what it is saying here is, look, all this that we are going to show you is behind
of various layers of security, compliance, privacy and responsible AI as well.
Here we can see what they are doing.
From all the transcript, from all the conversation,
all these people are talking at the same time,
you can't hear anything, if that were the case.
From all this conversation that these people are having,
here you can ask a question to this,
on this side would be this copilot,
this menu with which we talk,
and we can see how this text is being generated
based on that transcription.
what are the problems that are not solved and here it begins to tell us,
no explanation, let's say what they propose to you, the proposal and so on, no explanation, proposal
and we can see how we have it in different areas, so we are going to see the first one, the first one that
does is within what is Excel and here we can see on the left we are going to have
our tabular information and here on the right you can see how we start to ask questions
our information. For example, here, show me a breakdown of the growth of sales of ProSwear.
help me visualize what were the things that contributed to the decline in the growth of sales,
right? Analyzing the data and here it tells you, well, I can generate, I can apply the colors and I can
apply a color code to the tables to make it easier for you to see the trends, right?
You can see how it was added directly.
Now, here we ask a question.
What would have happened if the reusable containers
had maintained
the same growth rate
of the previous quarter?
What would have happened? Analyzing the data
and there it is answering us,
that is, the total growth for
ProSquare in the first quarter
would have been 9% instead of 1%.
It explains. It creates a model
and here it generates
a model based on this data.
We can keep asking questions and let it explain to us how it was, the way it thought all this.
Then we can add graphics, we can choose if we want to keep it, if we want to generate it again,
which is what we want to do.
Now here what it is showing us is, well, let's get out of Excel and we are going to put it in the email, right?
So, here we can see that...
We have a lot of emails that we have received and what we are asking Copilot is
can you make a summary of this, show me simply the most important thing that you have here.
So we do a catch up and you can see how it starts to show us only the most important things.
and also
Well, here what we are saying is, for example, give me a summary, I don't have a lot of time, I'm running, the truth is, I'm seeing that there is a huge e-mail thread, I want you to summarize it for me, and that's what we are seeing here, Conversation Summary.
and then here we say draft with copilot and we tell it, well, I want you to generate me, for example,
here are little things that we want, recommend me a later analysis or what do you want to do?
and here I put custom and I tell it, well, I want you to
make me a sketch of an email with all this info that I give you and also that you include the
projected sales of the q1 of this document and here it is saying get into this document, read it
and generate it. So this is the interesting part, we are not only doing a prompt,
generate me such a thing, but we are giving a reference to an external file and we say
analyze that file, get all the information that you think is relevant, put it in the prompt and
and generate something new.
And here we can see how it starts to combine all the information we saw there, but it also combines graphics that it is taking out.
Here we can see how we can also change, adjust the tone, make it a little shorter, change the tone to a more professional tone, neutral, casual, etc.
you can see how we can change it
So, we already saw what was email, what was Excel,
and let's see how this system of copilot works.
And this is what they are explaining here.
We have three aspects.
We have a system that feeds on three things.
First, what we are going to do is, through the applications that we have here on the left,
the 365 applications, what we are doing is, we are doing a prompt,
we are talking to the system, to the assistant, to Copilot, we are asking for something, for example,
give me the sales estimates for the next quarter.
Copilot does a pre-processing of that prompt that the user sent us,
so that it is written in a better way, so that the model can understand it,
And we go to this GraphNetwork that we have of all the things that are ours.
So, what we are doing here is basically generating a megadrive.
prompt, that is, we are going to use, we are going to have the initial prompt, for example, the user, if you remember how
gpt4 worked, it was, we establish the system, we tell it how we want the system to behave,
for example, an AI that works very well, is an expert in numbers, it is a counter that knows how to
generate sales projections, blah blah blah, that is your system, then within the user prompt
we put what I wanted to know.
and after that we put all the partial information of the documents in which we want to get the information,
which can be a Word document, it can be a presentation, it can be an Excel, it can be emails, it can be a contact list, it can be a lot of things.
I'm going to take this out. Once it takes out this information that we have here, emails, files, meetings, chats, calendars, contacts.
Once it gets all that information, it puts it in the prompt and sends it to the language model.
And we can say that this is a GPT chat, GPT-4, etc.,
that receives a giant prompt with all this information and generates the answer.
And now, the answer is...
It doesn't go directly to where we had the user, right?
So the answer goes back to this to be able to get all the sources from where we get the information.
You saw that before we had asked the system to explain where such a thing comes from,
why the sales are this, explain it to me.
Well, that explanation...
is because it is going back to the graph network that we had here
and it is getting the references of the files, where they came from, which part of the file
the information that is using the language model to send it came from.
and one thing that it also does
is that it checks that the answer it is giving, that is, it goes through a filtering system,
so that the answer it is giving is not, if you remember, that it is not aggressive,
discriminatory, racist, not useful, that it is a lie, that is, that it is not
factually correct, etc. And once all those tests are passed, it returns to the application again.
So, every time we write...
And there it says, for example, generating a response and it takes 1 or 2 seconds.
It's doing all of this that we see here.
So, in this case, you can see how one thing that can be done is,
this seemed to me to be tricky, here's a meeting and you say,
no, man, I'm not going to make it. No, I'm not going to make it because I'm doing something else.
It doesn't look good. But I want to follow, so I click follow.
What this does is that now the meeting is going to happen.
and I can ask for a recap of the meeting, that is, a summary of what happened, I didn't go to the meeting, but I want to know what happened anyway, well, I'll give you the summary, don't worry,
It gives you the summary, it gives you the notes, it does the things you have to do.
And it also shows you a video that matches with when things were said.
So you can keep asking questions here.
For example, what other clients were discussed and what factors were considered?
All of this.
Why? Because he is reading the transcription of the whole meeting.
and there you can see how we start to have... and if we want to see where that comes from, we can have the reference
directly in which part of the conversation was said to see that it is real, that is, we say this, but what did he really mean?
And it returns us the part in the transcription where it happened.
which is what we have here, right?
This weird part says, how does the group feel about the inventory status?
The group seems to have mixed feelings about the inventory status.
On one hand they are happy, blah blah blah. I don't know how reliable this is but
It's giving us that information, at least.
And well, what we have here is also very interesting, it is something that Google already showed us, more or less how it worked, so it is not so different, but in this case we have an application where all the people, that is, several people are
collaborating at the same time with this, so this is something crazy because it is not that there are
many applications where you can do this type of collaboration with AI as well,
that is, all these users at the same time are talking with Copilot and they are having, let's say,
this generation of content at the same time, with the same system that has access to the same
files, possibly, so we can see it as something interesting.
And this, what they are saying here at the end, is the whole part of Responsible AI, what they are saying is, look, we can have errors, what is important is that we also put mechanisms so that when we are wrong, they can give us a feedback of, you were wrong here, see if you can fix it.
So what it is saying is, look, this is actually an assistant, it is not going to solve your life, it is simply an assistant and in this case, for example, of any result that it gives you, you will be able to adjust the result, and here, for example, what we are seeing can be the short, medium, long, long text,
So the idea is that this gives you an initial help to start your work,
that it is not simply something that you take for granted,
but that it simply gives you an idea to start.
One thing that is not seen here is the whole part of the presentations,
Again, this, if you see it...
of the presentations, I mean PowerPoint.
What do we have here? This is longer, it's about 40 minutes, right?
I mean, this also seemed quite interesting to me.
Let's see it.
It was over here.
No, it's this.
What is this? Well, basically the same, right? The same thing we saw from Google.
It takes a lot of information and tells you to generate a presentation.
What I found interesting is that before this, you can actually have a text document.
Right? This text document.
And then you tell it,
Hey, now what I want is for you to make a presentation of this text document.
Right? So this is... I found it very cool, very interesting.
Now.
Having said this, we are going to stop here, we are going to make a conclusion and an idea of ​​the future of the work.
I'm going to say a couple of things about this.
First, all these tools are obviously new, some people can say impressive, like me, for example, I say this is impressive.
Other people can say, shit, I'm going to lose my job, or this is going too fast, I can't keep up with these things.
What I think in this case is, first of all, that now, at this moment, companies are accelerating
the, let's say, taking these products to the market. It doesn't mean that it will always be like this.
I mean, it doesn't mean that this is exponentially growing. It may be that they are growing now,
and then it becomes a plateau, and then eventually it will grow again.
But what we are seeing here is a very fast transition from the research to the application of these ideas.
which is interesting.
I'm going to tell a story here, I have a friend, a madman...
a guy from Sri Lanka, who works for Deloitte,
he is an important consultant,
and I remember he told me a story,
that once he had to make a presentation,
and in a similar situation, he had made a presentation
and he was presenting it internally,
and a person, his manager,
looks at it and says, that presentation is wrong,
why? He says that the formatting
That is, the training is wrong in the way it is done.
and it asks which part is wrong, and I say, no, no, no, look, tell me the blank spaces,
For example here, between the L and the W, the ampersand, there is a blank space.
well, tell me the amount of space and
The one on the left had less space than the one on the right.
And you say, how can it be that someone saw that?
Well, this person saw it.
I mean, the formatting was very important for this person in Deloitte.
To the point that he stopped a whole presentation and said,
count the blank spaces to see what was there.
And yes, there was indeed a space that was a little bigger.
Incredible.
All that kind of things, those little things,
are going to disappear with this kind of systems, right?
I mean, the idea of this is that
¡Lom!
The important thing is not so much how these things are done, but the initial idea.
These things are going to give you that beginning of creativity,
but at the end of the day there will always be a person who is going to make the decision.
So what I believe here is that clearly these machines are not going to replace people,
but if people who know how to use these tools,
it is very possible that they will replace people who do not know how to use these tools.
So with this I do want to tell you something that I see a lot, I have a friend who works as a QA engineer
and with him now, for example, what he can do is ask the GPT chat a lot of things
how to make a program or how to make
a new solution, etc. and he gives solutions that work.
So maybe now he can be much more efficient in his work
and he receives congratulations, for example,
because he is doing things that are applied, that are useful, very fast.
And he has the idea very quickly and can apply it.
The people I work with, for example, have a lot of academic training.
They have postdocs in machine learning and health.
And I see that they reject the idea of using language models
because if...
they think it is something more of engineering rather than theory, it is not linked to research
basically the ideas are like one and then you apply it in different domains
but in reality the original idea is very simple, there is no very superior research to it.
So, for this person, who already has an academic background, it is very difficult for him to open up to these new ideas
that, since no one knows exactly how they work, they have much more practice than theory.
So, in my opinion, in this case, we are seeing a kind of very accelerated social Darwinism
where the ability to adapt to these new things is more important than the previous knowledge we had.
So I would say that it is one of the best moments to get into everything that is machine learning
even if it seems that this is very complex, it is not so complex
and using these tools, the experience will be much more important than all that previous knowledge.
That on the one hand.
On the other hand, I think that what we are seeing here...
within Microsoft compared to all other companies is, first of all, that we have different players in this space, we have Apple, we have Facebook, we have Google, we have Amazon, we have Microsoft, etc., and then we have many more, but these are the great ones in software.
One thing that happened with Samsung, Samsung was always, always, always behind Sony, always.
Even if they made better hardware, better products, they were always behind.
Until the 90s, 2000s, where there was a change, which was to go from analog to digital.
In that case, Sony was very good.
It was excellent, Sony, in everything it was, it dominated the market, but Samsung then used that moment of transition as a moment to surpass Sony.
Why? Because Sony wasn't that interested in making that transition
because maybe their money came from the analogue part.
So, a very interesting thing that happened with Samsung
is that they hired a marketing vice-president named Lee
and what this guy said was
change absolutely everything except your wife and children.
And what I wanted to say with this is
we have to change the way we talk about the company,
we present it to the company, we think about the company completely.
So what they did here was an absolute change and they chose to get into the digital market and they became the pioneers of that and they were able to surpass Sony.
Why do I say this? Because what is happening here with Microsoft is that...
these people are adding it very quickly, all these new things that are coming out, they are putting it in very quickly.
Normally this is not the way it happens, if we go back again to see Google,
that Google has the same, right? I mean, it just released the same, exactly the same, but why does it take so long?
Why is Google the second to do this and not the first?
I should have been the first, if you have...
all the search, they have all our information, at least mine, they have it in the last 15 years
in their database, so how is it that Google is coming second instead of coming first?
So for me what is happening right now is something similar to this, which is a paradigm shift
of Microsoft passing over Echoes.
With this I do not want to say that Microsoft has won, but it is very interesting that this war is taking place and I hope, because eventually all this will advance the research in these areas, I hope that this will make Google and other companies begin to develop new things as well with all this, so with that I say goodbye.
I hope this talk has been entertaining
Again, these topics are very long, they are very long and they are very crazy
So, well, any comment you have about this, I tried to comment it as best as possible
If I forgot something, leave it in the comments, if you want to see something in particular, you can also leave it
so I leave you a big hug and bye bye
